README.md, before:

MySQL to PostgreSQL Converter
=============================

Lanyrd's MySQL to PostgreSQL conversion script. Use with care.

This script was designed for our specific database and column requirements -
notably, it doubles the lengths of VARCHARs due to a unicode size problem we
had, places indexes on all foreign keys, and presumes you're using Django
for column typing purposes.

GitLab-specific changes
-----------------------

The `gitlab` branch of this fork contains the following changes made for
GitLab.

- Guard against replacing '0000-00-00 00:00:00' inside SQL text fields.
- Replace all MySQL zero-byte string literals `\0`. This is safe as of GitLab
  6.8 because the GitLab database schema contains no binary columns.
- Never set 'NOT NULL' constraints on datetimes.
- Drop sequences before creating them.
- Import all indexes.
- Import index names.
- Preserve default values of boolean (originally `tinyint(1)`) columns.
- Import all indexes.
- Import index names.

How to use
----------

First, dump your MySQL database in PostgreSQL-compatible format

    mysqldump --compatible=postgresql --default-character-set=utf8 \
    -r databasename.mysql -u root gitlabhq_production -p

Then, convert it using the dbconverter.py script

`python db_converter.py databasename.mysql databasename.psql`

It'll print progress to the terminal

Next, load your new dump into a fresh PostgreSQL database using: 

`psql -f databasename.psql -d gitlabhq_production`

More information
----------------

You can learn more about the move which this powered at http://lanyrd.com/blog/2012/lanyrds-big-move/ and some technical details of it at http://www.aeracode.org/2012/11/13/one-change-not-enough/.

Commit message:

Create DROP INDEX statements during conversion
We can no longer count on GitLab to drop indexes for us in the restore script.
Because I cannot be bothered right now to rewrite db_converter.py to drop
support for writing to stdout, and allow seeking, and inserting lines at the
beginning, I added a small Ed script that moves the DROP INDEX statements to a
better spot than the end of the DB import.

I hope Ed does not choke on multi-GB files.

README.md, after:

MySQL to PostgreSQL Converter
=============================

Lanyrd's MySQL to PostgreSQL conversion script. Use with care.

This script was designed for our specific database and column requirements -
notably, it doubles the lengths of VARCHARs due to a unicode size problem we
had, places indexes on all foreign keys, and presumes you're using Django
for column typing purposes.

GitLab-specific changes
-----------------------

The `gitlab` branch of this fork contains the following changes made for
GitLab.

- Guard against replacing '0000-00-00 00:00:00' inside SQL text fields.
- Replace all MySQL zero-byte string literals `\0`. This is safe as of GitLab
  6.8 because the GitLab database schema contains no binary columns.
- Never set 'NOT NULL' constraints on datetimes.
- Drop sequences before creating them.
- Preserve default values of boolean (originally `tinyint(1)`) columns.
- Import all indexes.
- Import index names.
- Drop tables before creating.
- Drop indexes before creating.

How to use
----------

First, dump your MySQL database in PostgreSQL-compatible format

    mysqldump --compatible=postgresql --default-character-set=utf8 \
    -r databasename.mysql -u root gitlabhq_production -p

Then, convert it using the dbconverter.py script and move the 'DROP INDEX' statements to the start.

    python db_converter.py databasename.mysql databasename.psql
    ed -s databasename.psql < move_drop_indexes.ed

It'll print progress to the terminal

Next, load your new dump into a fresh PostgreSQL database using: 

`psql -f databasename.psql -d gitlabhq_production`

More information
----------------

You can learn more about the move which this powered at http://lanyrd.com/blog/2012/lanyrds-big-move/ and some technical details of it at http://www.aeracode.org/2012/11/13/one-change-not-enough/.
